README.md, before:

# Gulp Boilerplate [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cferdinandi/gulp-boilerplate.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/cferdinandi/gulp-boilerplate)

A boilerplate for building web projects with [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/). Uses Gulp 4.x.

**Features**

- Concatenate, minify, and lint JavaScript.
- Compile, minify, autoprefix, and lint Sass.
- Optimize SVGs.
- Copy static files and folders into your `dist` directory.
- Automatically add headers and project details to JS and CSS files.
- Create polyfilled and non-polyfilled versions of JS files.
- Watch for file changes, and automatically recompile build and reload webpages.

**Gulp Boilerplate makes it easy to turn features on and off**, so you can reuse it for all of your projects without having to delete or modify tasks.



## Getting Started

### Dependencies

*__Note:__ if you've previously installed Gulp globally, run `npm rm --global gulp` to remove it. [Details here.](https://medium.com/gulpjs/gulp-sips-command-line-interface-e53411d4467)*

Make sure these are installed first.

- [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
- [Gulp Command Line Utility](http://gulpjs.com) `npm install --global gulp-cli`

### Quick Start

1. In bash/terminal/command line, `cd` into your project directory.
2. Run `npm install` to install required files and dependencies.
3. When it's done installing, run one of the task runners to get going:
	- `gulp` manually compiles files.
	- `gulp watch` automatically compiles files and applies changes using [BrowserSync](https://browsersync.io/) when you make changes to your source files.

**Try it out.** After installing, run `gulp` to compile some test files into the `dist` directory. Or, run `gulp watch` and make some changes to see them recompile automatically.



## Documentation

Add your source files to the appropriate `src` subdirectories. Gulp will process and and compile them into `dist`.

- JavaScript files in the `src/js` directory will be compiled to `dist/js`. Files in subdirectories under the `js` folder will be concatenated. For example, files in `js/detects` will compile into `detects.js`.
- Files in the `src/sass` directory will be compiled to `dist/css`.
- SVG files placed in the `src/svg` directory will be optimized with SVGO and compiled into `dist/svg`.
- Files and folders placed in the `copy` directory will be copied as-is into the `dist` directory.

### package.json

The `package.json` file holds all of the details about your project.

Some information is automatically pulled in from it and added to a header that's injected into the top of your JavaScript and CSS files.

```json
{
	"name": "project-name",
	"version": "0.0.1",
	"description": "A description for your project.",
	"main": "./dist/your-main-js-file.js",
	"author": {
		"name": "YOUR NAME",
		"url": "http://link-to-your-website.com"
	},
	"license": "MIT",
	"repository": {
		"type": "git",
		"url": "http://link-to-your-git-repo.com"
	},
	"devDependencies": {}
}
```

*__Note:__ `devDependencies` are the dependencies Gulp uses. Don't change these or you'll break things.*

### JavaScript

Put your JavaScript files in the `src/js` directory.

Files placed directly in the `js` folder will compile directly to `dist/js` as both minified and unminified files. Files placed in subdirectories under `src/js` will also be concatenated into a single file. For example, files in `js/detects` will compile into `detects.js`.

*__A note about polyfills:__ In subdirectories that contain files with the `.polyfill.js` suffix (for example, `_matches.polyfill.js`), two versions will be created: one with the polyfill files, and one without.*

### Sass

Put your [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) files in the `src/sass` directory.

Gulp generates minified and unminified CSS files. It also includes [autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer), which adds vendor prefixes for you.

### SVGs

Place SVG files in the `src/svg` directory.

SVG files will be optimized with [SVGO](https://github.com/svg/svgo) and compiled into `dist/svg`.

### Copy Files

Files and folders placed in the `src/copy` directory will be copied as-is into `dist`.

This is a great place to put HTML files, images, and pre-compiled assets.



## Options & Settings

Gulp Boilerplate makes it easy to customize for projects without having to delete or modify tasks.

Options and settings are located at the top of the `gulpfile.js`.

### Settings

Set features under the `settings` variable to `true` to turn them on (default), and `false` to turn them off.

```js
/**
 * Settings
 * Turn on/off build features
 */

var settings = {
	clean: true,
	scripts: true,
	polyfills: true,
	styles: true,
	svgs: true,
	copy: true,
	reload: true
};
```

### Paths

Adjust the `input` and `output` paths for all of the Gulp tasks under the `paths` variable. Paths are relative to the root project folder.

```js
/**
 * Paths to project folders
 */

var paths = {
	input: 'src/',
	output: 'dist/',
	scripts: {
		input: 'src/js/*',
		// polyfills: '!src/js/*.polyfill.js',
		polyfills: '.polyfill.js',
		output: 'dist/js/'
	},
	styles: {
		input: 'src/sass/**/*.{scss,sass}',
		output: 'dist/css/'
	},
	svgs: {
		input: 'src/svg/*.svg',
		output: 'dist/svg/'
	},
	copy: {
		input: 'src/copy/*',
		output: 'dist/'
	},
	reload: './dist/'
};
```

### Header

Gulp auto-injects a header into all of your JavaScript and CSS files with details from your `package.json` file.

Unminified versions get a fat header, while minified files get a one-liner. You can change what's included under the `banner` variable.

```js
/**
 * Template for banner to add to file headers
 */

var banner = {
	full:
		'/*!\n' +
		' * <%= package.name %> v<%= package.version %>\n' +
		' * <%= package.description %>\n' +
		' * (c) ' + new Date().getFullYear() + ' <%= package.author.name %>\n' +
		' * <%= package.license %> License\n' +
		' * <%= package.repository.url %>\n' +
		' */\n\n',
	min:
		'/*!' +
		' <%= package.name %> v<%= package.version %>' +
		' | (c) ' + new Date().getFullYear() + ' <%= package.author.name %>' +
		' | <%= package.license %> License' +
		' | <%= package.repository.url %>' +
		' */\n'
};
```



## License

The code is available under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Changed svg description to assets/svg

README.md, after:

# Gulp Boilerplate [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cferdinandi/gulp-boilerplate.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/cferdinandi/gulp-boilerplate)

A boilerplate for building web projects with [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/). Uses Gulp 4.x.

**Features**

- Concatenate, minify, and lint JavaScript.
- Compile, minify, autoprefix, and lint Sass.
- Optimize SVGs.
- Render twig templates with JSON data
- Copy static assets files and folders into your `dist` directory.
- Automatically add headers and project details to JS and CSS files.
- Create polyfilled and non-polyfilled versions of JS files.
- Watch for file changes, and automatically recompile build and reload webpages.

**Turn features on and off**, so you can reuse it for all of your projects without having to delete or modify tasks.



## Getting Started

### Dependencies

*__Note:__ if you've previously installed Gulp globally, run `npm rm --global gulp` to remove it. [Details here.](https://medium.com/gulpjs/gulp-sips-command-line-interface-e53411d4467)*

Make sure these are installed first.

- [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
- [Gulp Command Line Utility](http://gulpjs.com) `npm install --global gulp-cli`

### Quick Start

1. In bash/terminal/command line, `cd` into your project directory.
2. Run `npm install` to install required files and dependencies.
3. When it's done installing, run one of the task runners to get going:
	- `gulp` manually compiles files.
	- `gulp watch` automatically compiles files and applies changes using [BrowserSync](https://browsersync.io/) when you make changes to your source files.

**Try it out.** After installing, run `gulp` to compile some test files into the `dist` directory. Or, run `gulp watch` and make some changes to see them recompile automatically.



## Documentation

Add your source files to the appropriate `src` subdirectories. Gulp will process and and compile them into `dist`.

- JavaScript files in the `src/js` directory will be compiled to `dist/js`. Files in subdirectories under the `js` folder will be concatenated. For example, files in `js/detects` will compile into `detects.js`.
- Files in the `src/sass` directory will be compiled to `dist/css`.
- SVG files placed in the `src/assets/svg/` directory will be optimized with SVGO and compiled into `dist/assets/svg/`.
- Other files and folders (except `assets/svg`) placed in the `assets` directory will be copied as-is into the `dist/assets` directory.

### package.json

The `package.json` file holds all of the details about your project.

Some information is automatically pulled in from it and added to a header that's injected into the top of your JavaScript and CSS files.

```json
{
	"name": "project-name",
	"version": "0.0.1",
	"description": "A description for your project.",
	"main": "./dist/your-main-js-file.js",
	"author": {
		"name": "YOUR NAME",
		"url": "http://link-to-your-website.com"
	},
	"license": "MIT",
	"repository": {
		"type": "git",
		"url": "http://link-to-your-git-repo.com"
	},
	"devDependencies": {}
}
```

*__Note:__ `devDependencies` are the dependencies Gulp uses. Don't change these or you'll break things.*

### JavaScript

Put your JavaScript files in the `src/js` directory.

Files placed directly in the `js` folder will compile directly to `dist/js` as both minified and unminified files. Files placed in subdirectories under `src/js` will also be concatenated into a single file. For example, files in `js/detects` will compile into `detects.js`.

*__A note about polyfills:__ In subdirectories that contain files with the `.polyfill.js` suffix (for example, `_matches.polyfill.js`), two versions will be created: one with the polyfill files, and one without.*

### Sass

Put your [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) files in the `src/sass` directory.

Gulp generates minified and unminified CSS files. It also includes [autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer), which adds vendor prefixes for you.

### SVGs

Place SVG files in the `src/assets/svg/` directory.

SVG files will be optimized with [SVGO](https://github.com/svg/svgo) and compiled into `dist/assets/svg/`.

### Copy Files

Files and folders placed in the `src/assets` directory will be copied as-is into `dist`.

This is a great place to put HTML files, images, and pre-compiled assets.



## Options & Settings

Gulp Boilerplate makes it easy to customize for projects without having to delete or modify tasks.

Options and settings are located at the top of the `gulpfile.js`.

### Settings

Set features under the `settings` variable to `true` to turn them on (default), and `false` to turn them off.

```js
/**
 * Settings
 * Turn on/off build features
 */

var settings = {
	clean: true,
	scripts: true,
	polyfills: true,
	styles: true,
	svgs: true,
	copy: true,
	reload: true
};
```

### Paths

Adjust the `input` and `output` paths for all of the Gulp tasks under the `paths` variable. Paths are relative to the root project folder.

```js
/**
 * Paths to project folders
 */

var paths = {
	input: 'src/',
	output: 'dist/',
	scripts: {
		input: 'src/js/*',
		// polyfills: '!src/js/*.polyfill.js',
		polyfills: '.polyfill.js',
		output: 'dist/js/'
	},
	styles: {
		input: 'src/sass/**/*.{scss,sass}',
		output: 'dist/css/'
	},
	svgs: {
		input: 'src/svg/*.svg',
		output: 'dist/svg/'
	},
	copy: {
		input: 'src/copy/*',
		output: 'dist/'
	},
	reload: './dist/'
};
```

### Header

Gulp auto-injects a header into all of your JavaScript and CSS files with details from your `package.json` file.

Unminified versions get a fat header, while minified files get a one-liner. You can change what's included under the `banner` variable.

```js
/**
 * Template for banner to add to file headers
 */

var banner = {
	full:
		'/*!\n' +
		' * <%= package.name %> v<%= package.version %>\n' +
		' * <%= package.description %>\n' +
		' * (c) ' + new Date().getFullYear() + ' <%= package.author.name %>\n' +
		' * <%= package.license %> License\n' +
		' * <%= package.repository.url %>\n' +
		' */\n\n',
	min:
		'/*!' +
		' <%= package.name %> v<%= package.version %>' +
		' | (c) ' + new Date().getFullYear() + ' <%= package.author.name %>' +
		' | <%= package.license %> License' +
		' | <%= package.repository.url %>' +
		' */\n'
};
```



## License

The code is available under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
